# CNF Converter
### Question 6

## About
This program was written in Java (JDK 15). The version of JUnit we are using for tests is 5.4.

## Description
This is a program that reads from a file of sentences in propositional logic and converts said sentences into Conjunctive Normal Form (CNF).

## Functionalty
**How is input/output handled?**

Our program does not take input from the command line; instead, it assumes that a text file named *exam1-supplement.txt* exists and is in the same directory as the Main.java file. The output of our program will be a print to the console. In order to compile and run this from the command line, kindly execute the following commands:
> javac Main.java

> java Main

**Examples of Functionality**

An example of functionality is illustrated below:
(assuming this is the input in *exam1-supplement.txt*)
```
IFF('c','d')
AND('d',NOT('h'))
OR('c', 'd')
IMP('p','q')
NOT('r')
```
(the output would be printed out as follows)
```
Before conversion, the sentence is:
IFF('k','b')
Converting this to CNF gives you:
AND(OR(NOT('k'),'b'),OR(NOT('b'),'k'))
----------
Before conversion, the sentence is:
AND('d',NOT('h'))
Converting this to CNF gives you:
AND('d',NOT('h'))
----------
Before conversion, the sentence is:
OR('c', 'd')
Converting this to CNF gives you:
OR('c', 'd')
----------
Before conversion, the sentence is:
IMP('p','q')
Converting this to CNF gives you:
OR(NOT('p'),'q')
----------
Before conversion, the sentence is:
NOT('r')
Converting this to CNF gives you:
NOT('r')
----------
```
(and in addition, there is a converted part that prints out sentences that can be checked in [this SAT solver](https://www.erpelstolz.at/gateway/formular-uk-zentral.html))
```
********************
FOR SAT SOLVER
The input:
(k)↔(b)
The CNF conversion:
((¬(k))∨(b))∧((¬(b))∨(k))
----------
The input:
(d)∧(¬(h))
The CNF conversion:
(d)∧(¬(h))
----------
The input:
(c)∨(d)
The CNF conversion:
(c)∨(d)
----------
The input:
(p)→(q)
The CNF conversion:
(¬(p))∨(q)
----------
The input:
¬(r)
The CNF conversion:
¬(r)
----------
```
**Note that** whenever we are talking about "input" in the SAT solver's print, what we really mean is the original input from the .txt file, translated. Meaning that there should not exist a proposition of this format in the actual input file.


## How Does this Work?
**CNF.java**

Abstract parent class `CNF<E>` is used to ensure that each abstract method in the class needs t o be implemented by any other class that inherits it. The classes that inherit from this are all representative of the different subterms of a single sentence in this logic. 

**CNFTests.java**

Check out this file to see some more of our own tests!

**Main.java**

Streams! After the horrid task of string parsing (I couldn't find anything online that did exactly what I wanted with regex, so I just did it myself), there are helper functions to deal with one input sentence taken from the list generated by reading from the .txt file. From one sentence, we generate the terms and subterms and put those in a decreasing list by length - meaning that the first item in the list represents the input term (this happens in `stringTo()`. What we mean by terms and subterms is all of the inner sentences that occur in a term, searching recursively within those inner sentences until we hit an atomic proposition (like *'p'*). After we get this list of strings, we will be able to parse the goal string accordingly and convert it to an object of our CNF class (we do this in `toClass()`). Then, we use our lovely streams and map on our input list, as a stream (this is done in our main method).











